Instant Neural Graphics Primitives with a Multiresolution Hash Encoding
THOMAS MÜLLER, NVIDIA, Switzerland
ALEX EVANS, NVIDIA, United Kingdom
CHRISTOPH SCHIED, NVIDIA, USA
ALEXANDER KELLER, NVIDIA, Germany
https://nvlabs.github.io/instant-ngp
Trained for 1 second
15 seconds
1 second
15 seconds
60 seconds
reference
Gigapixel image
SDF
NRC
NeRF
Fig. 1. We demonstrate instant training of neural graphics primitives on a single GPU for multiple tasks. In Gigapixel image we represent a gigapixel image by
a neural network. SDF learns a signed distance function in 3D space whose zero level-set represents a 2D surface. Neural radiance caching (NRC) [Müller et al.
2021] employs a neural network that is trained in real-time to cache costly lighting calculations. Lastly, NeRF [Mildenhall et al. 2020] uses 2D images and
their camera poses to reconstruct a volumetric radiance-and-density field that is visualized using ray marching. In all tasks, our encoding and its efficient
implementation provide clear benefits: rapid training, high quality, and simplicity. Our encoding is task-agnostic: we use the same implementation and
hyperparameters across all tasks and only vary the hash table size which trades off quality and performance. Photograph ©Trevor Dobson (CC BY-NC-ND 2.0)
Neural graphics primitives, parameterized by fully connected neural net-
works, can be costly to train and evaluate. We reduce this cost with a versatile
new input encoding that permits the use of a smaller network without sac-
rificing quality, thus significantly reducing the number of floating point
and memory access operations: a small neural network is augmented by a
multiresolution hash table of trainable feature vectors whose values are op-
timized through stochastic gradient descent. The multiresolution structure
allows the network to disambiguate hash collisions, making for a simple
Authors’ addresses: Thomas Müller, NVIDIA, Zürich, Switzerland, tmueller@nvidia.
com; Alex Evans, NVIDIA, London, United Kingdom, alexe@nvidia.com; Christoph
Schied, NVIDIA, Seattle, USA, cschied@nvidia.com; Alexander Keller, NVIDIA, Berlin,
Germany, akeller@nvidia.com.
© 2022 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
This is the author’s version of the work. It is posted here for your personal use. Not for
redistribution. The definitive Version of Record was published in ACM Transactions on
Graphics, https://doi.org/10.1145/3528223.3530127.
architecture that is trivial to parallelize on modern GPUs. We leverage this
parallelism by implementing the whole system using fully-fused CUDA ker-
nels with a focus on minimizing wasted bandwidth and compute operations.
We achieve a combined speedup of several orders of magnitude, enabling
training of high-quality neural graphics primitives in a matter of seconds,
and rendering in tens of milliseconds at a resolution of 1920×1080.
CCS Concepts: • Computing methodologies →Massively parallel algo-
rithms; Vector / streaming algorithms; Neural networks.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Image Synthesis, Neural Networks, En-
codings, Hashing, GPUs, Parallel Computation, Function Approximation.
ACM Reference Format:
Thomas Müller, Alex Evans, Christoph Schied, and Alexander Keller. 2022.
Instant Neural Graphics Primitives with a Multiresolution Hash Encoding.
ACM Trans. Graph. 41, 4, Article 102 (July 2022), 15 pages. https://doi.org/10.
1145/3528223.3530127
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 4, Article 102. Publication date: July 2022.
arXiv:2201.05989v2  [cs.CV]  4 May 2022

102:2
•
Müller et al.
1
INTRODUCTION
Computer graphics primitives are fundamentally represented by
mathematical functions that parameterize appearance. The quality
and performance characteristics of the mathematical representation
are crucial for visual fidelity: we desire representations that remain
fast and compact while capturing high-frequency, local detail. Func-
tions represented by multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs), used as neural
graphics primitives, have been shown to match these criteria (to
varying degree), for example as representations of shape [Martel
et al. 2021; Park et al. 2019] and radiance fields [Liu et al. 2020;
Mildenhall et al. 2020; Müller et al. 2020, 2021].
The important commonality of the these approaches is an encod-
ing that maps neural network inputs to a higher-dimensional space,
which is key for extracting high approximation quality from com-
pact models. Most successful among these encodings are trainable,
task-specific data structures [Liu et al. 2020; Takikawa et al. 2021]
that take on a large portion of the learning task. This enables the use
of smaller, more efficient MLPs. However, such data structures rely
on heuristics and structural modifications (such as pruning, split-
ting, or merging) that may complicate the training process, limit
the method to a specific task, or limit performance on GPUs where
control flow and pointer chasing is expensive.
We address these concerns with our multiresolution hash encod-
ing, which is adaptive and efficient, independent of the task. It is
configured by just two values—the number of parameters 𝑇and the
desired finest resolution 𝑁max—yielding state-of-the-art quality on
a variety of tasks (Figure 1) after a few seconds of training.
Key to both the task-independent adaptivity and efficiency is a
multiresolution hierarchy of hash tables:
• Adaptivity: we map a cascade of grids to corresponding fixed-
size arrays of feature vectors. At coarse resolutions, there is a 1:1
mapping from grid points to array entries. At fine resolutions, the
array is treated as a hash table and indexed using a spatial hash
function, where multiple grid points alias each array entry. Such
hash collisions cause the colliding training gradients to average,
meaning that the largest gradients—those most relevant to the
loss function—will dominate. The hash tables thus automatically
prioritize the sparse areas with the most important fine scale detail.
Unlike prior work, no structural updates to the data structure are
needed at any point during training.
• Efficiency: our hash table lookups are O(1) and do not require
control flow. This maps well to modern GPUs, avoiding execution
divergence and serial pointer-chasing inherent in tree traversals.
The hash tables for all resolutions may be queried in parallel.
We validate our multiresolution hash encoding in four representa-
tive tasks (see Figure 1):
(1) Gigapixel image: the MLP learns the mapping from 2D coor-
dinates to RGB colors of a high-resolution image.
(2) Neural signed distance functions (SDF): the MLP learns the
mapping from 3D coordinates to the distance to a surface.
(3) Neural radiance caching (NRC): the MLP learns the 5D light
field of a given scene from a Monte Carlo path tracer.
(4) Neural radiance and density fields (NeRF): the MLP learns
the 3D density and 5D light field of a given scene from image
observations and corresponding perspective transforms.
In the following, we first review prior neural network encodings
(Section 2), then we describe our encoding (Section 3) and its imple-
mentation (Section 4), followed lastly by our experiments (Section 5)
and discussion thereof (Section 6).
2
BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
Early examples of encoding the inputs of a machine learning model
into a higher-dimensional space include the one-hot encoding [Har-
ris and Harris 2013] and the kernel trick [Theodoridis 2008] by which
complex arrangements of data can be made linearly separable.
For neural networks, input encodings have proven useful in the at-
tention components of recurrent architectures [Gehring et al. 2017]
and, subsequently, transformers [Vaswani et al. 2017], where they
help the neural network to identify the location it is currently pro-
cessing. Vaswani et al. [2017] encode scalar positions 𝑥∈R as a
multiresolution sequence of 𝐿∈N sine and cosine functions
enc(𝑥) =   sin(20𝑥), sin(21𝑥), . . . , sin(2𝐿−1𝑥),
cos(20𝑥), cos(21𝑥), . . . , cos(2𝐿−1𝑥)  .
(1)
This has been adopted in computer graphics to encode the spatio-
directionally varying light field and volume density in the NeRF
algorithm [Mildenhall et al. 2020]. The five dimensions of this light
field are independently encoded using the above formula; this was
later extended to randomly oriented parallel wavefronts [Tancik
et al. 2020] and level-of-detail filtering [Barron et al. 2021a]. We will
refer to this family of encodings as frequency encodings. Notably,
frequency encodings followed by a linear transformation have been
used in other computer graphics tasks, such as approximating the
visibility function [Annen et al. 2007; Jansen and Bavoil 2010].
Müller et al. [2019; 2020] suggested a continuous variant of the
one-hot encoding based on rasterizing a kernel, the one-blob en-
coding, which can achieve more accurate results than frequency
encodings in bounded domains at the cost of being single-scale.
Parametric encodings. Recently, state-of-the-art results have been
achieved by parametric encodings which blur the line between clas-
sical data structures and neural approaches. The idea is to arrange
additional trainable parameters (beyond weights and biases) in an
auxiliary data structure, such as a grid [Chabra et al. 2020; Jiang
et al. 2020; Liu et al. 2020; Mehta et al. 2021; Peng et al. 2020a; Sun
et al. 2021; Tang et al. 2018; Yu et al. 2021a] or a tree [Takikawa et al.
2021], and to look-up and (optionally) interpolate these parameters
depending on the input vector x ∈R𝑑. This arrangement trades a
larger memory footprint for a smaller computational cost: whereas
for each gradient propagated backwards through the network, every
weight in the fully connected MLP network must be updated, for
the trainable input encoding parameters (“feature vectors”), only
a very small number are affected. For example, with a trilinearly
interpolated 3D grid of feature vectors, only 8 such grid points need
to be updated for each sample back-propagated to the encoding. In
this way, although the total number of parameters is much higher
for a parametric encoding than a fixed input encoding, the number
of FLOPs and memory accesses required for the update during train-
ing is not increased significantly. By reducing the size of the MLP,
such parametric models can typically be trained to convergence
much faster without sacrificing approximation quality.
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 4, Article 102. Publication date: July 2022.

Instant Neural Graphics Primitives with a Multiresolution Hash Encoding
•
102:3
(a) No encoding
(b) Frequency
[Mildenhall et al. 2020]
(c) Dense grid
Single resolution
(d) Dense grid
Multi resolution
(e) Hash table (ours)
𝑇= 214
(f) Hash table (ours)
𝑇= 219
411 k + 0 parameters
438 k + 0
10 k + 33.6 M
10 k + 16.3 M
10 k + 494 k
10 k + 12.6 M
11:28 (mm:ss) / PSNR 18.56
12:45 / PSNR 22.90
1:09 / PSNR 22.35
1:26 / PSNR 23.62
1:48 / PSNR 22.61
1:47 / PSNR 24.58
Fig. 2. A demonstration of the reconstruction quality of different encodings and parametric data structures for storing trainable feature embeddings. Each
configuration was trained for 11 000 steps using our fast NeRF implementation (Section 5.4), varying only the input encoding and MLP size. The number of
trainable parameters (MLP weights + encoding parameters), training time and reconstruction accuracy (PSNR) are shown below each image. Our encoding (e)
with a similar total number of trainable parameters as the frequency encoding configuration (b) trains over 8× faster, due to the sparsity of updates to the
parameters and smaller MLP. Increasing the number of parameters (f) further improves reconstruction accuracy without significantly increasing training time.
Another parametric approach uses a tree subdivision of the do-
main R𝑑, wherein a large auxiliary coordinate encoder neural net-
work (ACORN) [Martel et al. 2021] is trained to output dense feature
grids in the leaf node around x. These dense feature grids, which
have on the order of 10 000 entries, are then linearly interpolated, as
in Liu et al. [2020]. This approach tends to yield a larger degree of
adaptivity compared with the previous parametric encodings, albeit
at greater computational cost which can only be amortized when
sufficiently many inputs x fall into each leaf node.
Sparse parametric encodings. While existing parametric encod-
ings tend to yield much greater accuracy than their non-parametric
predecessors, they also come with downsides in efficiency and versa-
tility. Dense grids of trainable features consume much more memory
than the neural network weights. To illustrate the trade-offs and to
motivate our method, Figure 2 shows the effect on reconstruction
quality of a neural radiance field for several different encodings.
Without any input encoding at all (a), the network is only able to
learn a fairly smooth function of position, resulting in a poor ap-
proximation of the light field. The frequency encoding (b) allows
the same moderately sized network (8 hidden layers, each 256 wide)
to represent the scene much more accurately. The middle image (c)
pairs a smaller network with a dense grid of 1283 trilinearly inter-
polated, 16-dimensional feature vectors, for a total of 33.6 million
trainable parameters. The large number of trainable parameters can
be efficiently updated, as each sample only affects 8 grid points.
However, the dense grid is wasteful in two ways. First, it allocates
as many features to areas of empty space as it does to those areas
near the surface. The number of parameters grows as O(𝑁3), while
the visible surface of interest has surface area that grows only as
O(𝑁2). In this example, the grid has resolution 1283, but only 53 807
(2.57%) of its cells touch the visible surface.
Second, natural scenes exhibit smoothness, motivating the use
of a multi-resolution decomposition [Chibane et al. 2020; Hadadan
et al. 2021]. Figure 2 (d) shows the result of using an encoding in
which interpolated features are stored in eight co-located grids with
resolutions from 163 to 1733, each containing 2-dimensional feature
vectors. These are concatenated to form a 16-dimensional (same as
(c)) input to the network. Despite having less than half the number
of parameters as (c), the reconstruction quality is similar.
If the surface of interest is known a priori, a data structure such
as an octree [Takikawa et al. 2021] or sparse grid [Chabra et al.
2020; Chibane et al. 2020; Hadadan et al. 2021; Jiang et al. 2020; Liu
et al. 2020; Peng et al. 2020a] can be used to cull away the unused
features in the dense grid. However, in the NeRF setting, surfaces
only emerge during training. NSVF [Liu et al. 2020] and several
concurrent works [Sun et al. 2021; Yu et al. 2021a] adopt a multi-
stage, coarse to fine strategy in which regions of the feature grid are
progressively refined and culled away as necessary. While effective,
this leads to a more complex training process in which the sparse
data structure must be periodically updated.
Our method—Figure 2 (e,f)—combines both ideas to reduce waste.
We store the trainable feature vectors in a compact spatial hash table,
whose size is a hyper-parameter 𝑇which can be tuned to trade the
number of parameters for reconstruction quality. It neither relies on
progressive pruning during training nor on a priori knowledge of the
geometry of the scene. Analogous to the multi-resolution grid in (d),
we use multiple separate hash tables indexed at different resolutions,
whose interpolated outputs are concatenated before being passed
through the MLP. The reconstruction quality is comparable to the
dense grid encoding, despite having 20× fewer parameters.
Unlike prior work that used spatial hashing [Teschner et al. 2003]
for 3D reconstruction [Nießner et al. 2013], we do not explicitly han-
dle collisions of the hash functions by typical means like probing,
bucketing, or chaining. Instead, we rely on the neural network to
learn to disambiguate hash collisions itself, avoiding control flow
divergence, reducing implementation complexity and improving
performance. Another performance benefit is the predictable mem-
ory layout of the hash tables that is independent of the data that is
represented. While good caching behavior is often hard to achieve
with tree-like data structures, our hash tables can be fine-tuned for
low-level architectural details such as cache size.
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 4, Article 102. Publication date: July 2022.

102:4
•
Müller et al.
x
y
𝑚(y; Φ)
𝑇
𝐹
𝐿· 𝐹
𝐸
𝜉
𝐿= 2, 𝑏= 1.5
1/𝑁1
1/𝑁0
𝑙= 0
𝑙= 1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
0
2
3
6
0
4
1
7
(1) Hashing of voxel vertices
(2) Lookup
(3) Linear interpolation
(4) Concatenation
(5) Neural network
Fig. 3. Illustration of the multiresolution hash encoding in 2D. (1) for a given input coordinate x, we find the surrounding voxels at 𝐿resolution levels and
assign indices to their corners by hashing their integer coordinates. (2) for all resulting corner indices, we look up the corresponding 𝐹-dimensional feature
vectors from the hash tables 𝜃𝑙and (3) linearly interpolate them according to the relative position of x within the respective 𝑙-th voxel. (4) we concatenate the
result of each level, as well as auxiliary inputs 𝜉∈R𝐸, producing the encoded MLP input 𝑦∈R𝐿𝐹+𝐸, which (5) is evaluated last. To train the encoding, loss
gradients are backpropagated through the MLP (5), the concatenation (4), the linear interpolation (3), and then accumulated in the looked-up feature vectors.
Table 1. Hash encoding parameters and their ranges in our results. Only
the hash table size𝑇and max. resolution 𝑁max need to be tuned to the task.
Parameter
Symbol
Value
Number of levels
𝐿
16
Max. entries per level (hash table size)
𝑇
214 to 224
Number of feature dimensions per entry
𝐹
2
Coarsest resolution
𝑁min
16
Finest resolution
𝑁max
512 to 524288
3
MULTIRESOLUTION HASH ENCODING
Given a fully connected neural network𝑚(y; Φ), we are interested in
an encoding of its inputs y = enc(x;𝜃) that improves the approxima-
tion quality and training speed across a wide range of applications
without incurring a notable performance overhead. Our neural net-
work not only has trainable weight parameters Φ, but also trainable
encoding parameters 𝜃. These are arranged into 𝐿levels, each con-
taining up to𝑇feature vectors with dimensionality 𝐹. Typical values
for these hyperparameters are shown in Table 1. Figure 3 illustrates
the steps performed in our multiresolution hash encoding. Each
level (two of which are shown as red and blue in the figure) is inde-
pendent and conceptually stores feature vectors at the vertices of a
grid, the resolution of which is chosen to be a geometric progression
between the coarsest and finest resolutions [𝑁min, 𝑁max]:
𝑁𝑙:=
j
𝑁min · 𝑏𝑙k
,
(2)
𝑏:= exp
 ln 𝑁max −ln 𝑁min
𝐿−1

.
(3)
𝑁max is chosen to match the finest detail in the training data. Due
to the large number of levels 𝐿, the growth factor is usually small.
Our use cases have 𝑏∈[1.26, 2].
Consider a single level 𝑙. The input coordinate x ∈R𝑑is scaled
by that level’s grid resolution before rounding down and up ⌊x𝑙⌋:=
⌊x · 𝑁𝑙⌋, ⌈x𝑙⌉:= ⌈x · 𝑁𝑙⌉.
⌊x𝑙⌋and ⌈x𝑙⌉span a voxel with 2𝑑integer vertices in Z𝑑. We map
each corner to an entry in the level’s respective feature vector array,
which has fixed size of at most𝑇. For coarse levels where a dense grid
requires fewer than 𝑇parameters, i.e. (𝑁𝑙+ 1)𝑑≤𝑇, this mapping
is 1:1. At finer levels, we use a hash function ℎ: Z𝑑→Z𝑇to index
into the array, effectively treating it as a hash table, although there is
no explicit collision handling. We rely instead on the gradient-based
optimization to store appropriate sparse detail in the array, and the
subsequent neural network 𝑚(y; Φ) for collision resolution. The
number of trainable encoding parameters 𝜃is therefore O(𝑇) and
bounded by 𝑇· 𝐿· 𝐹which in our case is always 𝑇· 16 · 2 (Table 1).
We use a spatial hash function [Teschner et al. 2003] of the form
ℎ(x) =
 𝑑
Ê
𝑖=1
𝑥𝑖𝜋𝑖
!
mod 𝑇,
(4)
where ⊕denotes the bit-wise XOR operation and 𝜋𝑖are unique,
large prime numbers. Effectively, this formula XORs the results
of a per-dimension linear congruential (pseudo-random) permuta-
tion [Lehmer 1951], decorrelating the effect of the dimensions on
the hashed value. Notably, to achieve (pseudo-)independence, only
𝑑−1 of the 𝑑dimensions must be permuted, so we choose 𝜋1 := 1
for better cache coherence, 𝜋2 = 2 654 435 761, and 𝜋3 = 805 459 861.
Lastly, the feature vectors at each corner are 𝑑-linearly interpo-
lated according to the relative position of x within its hypercube,
i.e. the interpolation weight is w𝑙:= x𝑙−⌊x𝑙⌋.
Recall that this process takes place independently for each of the
𝐿levels. The interpolated feature vectors of each level, as well as
auxiliary inputs 𝜉∈R𝐸(such as the encoded view direction and
textures in neural radiance caching), are concatenated to produce
y ∈R𝐿𝐹+𝐸, which is the encoded input enc(x;𝜃) to the MLP𝑚(y; Φ).
Performance vs. quality. Choosing the hash table size𝑇provides a
trade-off between performance, memory and quality. Higher values
of 𝑇result in higher quality and lower performance. The memory
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 4, Article 102. Publication date: July 2022.

Instant Neural Graphics Primitives with a Multiresolution Hash Encoding
•
102:5
0
100
200
30
40
50
𝑇= 216
𝑇= 219
𝑇= 224
Training time (seconds)
PSNR (dB)
Gigapixel image
Pluto
Mars
Tokyo
0
50
100
150
20
25
30
𝑇= 214
𝑇= 219 𝑇= 221
Training time (seconds)
MAPE (dB)
SDF
Clockwork
Lizard
Bearded Man
0
100
200
300
30
35
𝑇= 214
𝑇= 219
𝑇= 221
Training time (seconds)
PSNR (dB)
NeRF
Lego
Ship
Fig. 4. The main curves plot test error over training time for varying hash table size 𝑇which determines the number of trainable encoding parameters.
Increasing 𝑇improves reconstruction, at the cost of higher memory usage and slower training and inference. A performance cliff is visible at 𝑇> 219 where
the cache of our RTX 3090 GPU becomes oversubscribed (particularly visible for SDF and NeRF). The plot also shows model convergence over time leading up
to the final state. This highlights how high quality results are already obtained after only a few seconds. Jumps in the convergence (most visible towards the
end of SDF training) are caused by learning rate decay. For NeRF and Gigapixel image, training finishes after 31 000 steps and for SDF after 11 000 steps.
200
300
400
25
30
35
40
𝐿= 2
𝐿= 4
𝐿= 8
𝐿= 16
𝐿= 32
Training time (seconds)
PSNR (dB)
Gigapixel image: Tokyo
F=1
F=2
F=4
F=8
60
80
100
20
21
22
𝐿= 4
𝐿= 8
𝐿= 16
𝐿= 32
Training time (seconds)
MAPE (dB)
Signed Distance Function: Cow
F=1
F=2
F=4
F=8
200
300
400
500
33
34
35
36
𝐿= 4
𝐿= 8
𝐿= 16
𝐿= 32
Training time (seconds)
PSNR (dB)
Neural Radiance Field: Lego
F=1
F=2
F=4
F=8
Fig. 5. Test error over training time for fixed values of feature dimensionality 𝐹as the number of hash table levels 𝐿is varied. To maintain a roughly equal
trainable parameter count, the hash table size 𝑇is set according to 𝐹· 𝑇· 𝐿= 224 for SDF and NeRF, whereas gigapixel image uses 228. Since (𝐹= 2, 𝐿= 16)
is near the best-case performance and quality (top-left) for all applications, we use this configuration in all results. 𝐹= 1 is slow on our RTX 3090 GPU since
atomic half-precision accumulation is only efficient for 2D vectors but not for scalars. For NeRF and Gigapixel image, training finishes after 31 000 steps
whereas SDF completes at 11 000 steps.
footprint is linear in 𝑇, whereas quality and performance tend to
scale sub-linearly. We analyze the impact of𝑇in Figure 4, where we
report test error vs. training time for a wide range of 𝑇-values for
three neural graphics primitives. We recommend practitioners to use
𝑇to tweak the encoding to their desired performance characteristics.
The hyperparameters 𝐿(number of levels) and 𝐹(number of fea-
ture dimensions) also trade off quality and performance, which we
analyze for an approximately constant number of trainable encoding
parameters 𝜃in Figure 5. In this analysis, we found (𝐹= 2, 𝐿= 16)
to be a favorable Pareto optimum in all our applications, so we use
these values in all other results and recommend them as the default.
Implicit hash collision resolution. It may appear counter-intuitive
that this encoding is able to reconstruct scenes faithfully in the
presence of hash collisions. Key to its success is that the different
resolution levels have different strengths that complement each
other. The coarser levels, and thus the encoding as a whole, are
injective—that is, they suffer from no collisions at all. However, they
can only represent a low-resolution version of the scene, since they
offer features which are linearly interpolated from a widely spaced
grid of points. Conversely, fine levels can capture small features due
to their fine grid resolution, but suffer from many collisions—that is,
disparate points which hash to the same table entry. Nearby inputs
with equal integer coordinates ⌊x𝑙⌋are not considered a collision;
a collision occurs when different integer coordinates hash to the
same index. Luckily, such collisions are pseudo-randomly scattered
across space, and statistically unlikely to occur simultaneously at
every level for a given pair of points.
When training samples collide in this way, their gradients average.
Consider that the importance to the final reconstruction of such
samples is rarely equal. For example, a point on a visible surface
of a radiance field will contribute strongly to the reconstructed
image (having high visibility and high density, both multiplicatively
affecting the magnitude of gradients) causing large changes to its
table entries, while a point in empty space that happens to refer to
the same entry will have a much smaller weight. As a result, the
gradients of the more important samples dominate the collision
average and the aliased table entry will naturally be optimized in
such a way that it reflects the needs of the higher-weighted point.
The multiresolution aspect of the hash encoding covers the full
range from a coarse resolution 𝑁min that is guaranteed to be collision-
free to the finest resolution 𝑁max that the task requires. Thereby, it
guarantees that all scales at which meaningful learning could take
place are included, regardless of sparsity. Geometric scaling allows
covering these scales with only O  log (𝑁max/𝑁min) many levels,
which allows picking a conservatively large value for 𝑁max.
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 4, Article 102. Publication date: July 2022.

102:6
•
Müller et al.
Online adaptivity. Note that if the distribution of inputs x changes
over time during training, for example if they become concentrated
in a small region, then finer grid levels will experience fewer colli-
sions and a more accurate function can be learned. In other words,
the multiresolution hash encoding automatically adapts to the train-
ing data distribution, inheriting the benefits of tree-based encod-
ings [Takikawa et al. 2021] without task-specific data structure
maintenance that might cause discrete jumps during training. One
of our applications, neural radiance caching in Section 5.3, con-
tinually adapts to animated viewpoints and 3D content, greatly
benefitting from this feature.
𝑑-linear interpolation. Interpolating the queried hash table entries
ensures that the encoding enc(x;𝜃), and by the chain rule its com-
position with the neural network 𝑚(enc(x;𝜃); Φ), are continuous.
Without interpolation, grid-aligned discontinuities would be present
in the network output, which would result in an undesirable blocky
appearance. One may desire higher-order smoothness, for exam-
ple when approximating partial differential equations. A concrete
example from computer graphics are signed distance functions, in
which case the gradient 𝜕𝑚(enc(x;𝜃); Φ)/𝜕x, i.e. the surface normal,
would ideally also be continuous. If higher-order smoothness must
be guaranteed, we describe a low-cost approach in Appendix A,
which we however do not employ in any of our results due to a
small decrease in reconstruction quality.
4
IMPLEMENTATION
To demonstrate the speed of the multiresolution hash encoding, we
implemented it in CUDA and integrated it with the fast fully-fused
MLPs of the tiny-cuda-nn framework [Müller 2021].1 We release the
source code of the multiresolution hash encoding as an update to
Müller [2021] and the source code pertaining to the neural graphics
primitives at https://github.com/nvlabs/instant-ngp.
Performance considerations. In order to optimize inference and
backpropagation performance, we store hash table entries at half
precision (2 bytes per entry). We additionally maintain a master
copy of the parameters in full precision for stable mixed-precision
parameter updates, following Micikevicius et al. [2018].
To optimally use the GPU’s caches, we evaluate the hash tables
level by level: when processing a batch of input positions, we sched-
ule the computation to look up the first level of the multiresolution
hash encoding for all inputs, followed by the second level for all
inputs, and so on. Thus, only a small number of consecutive hash
tables have to reside in caches at any given time, depending on how
much parallelism is available on the GPU. Importantly, this struc-
ture of computation automatically makes good use of the available
caches and parallelism for a wide range of hash table sizes 𝑇.
On our hardware, the performance of the encoding remains
roughly constant as long as the hash table size stays below 𝑇≤219.
Beyond this threshold, performance starts to drop significantly; see
Figure 4. This is explained by the 6 MB L2 cache of our NVIDIA
RTX 3090 GPU, which becomes too small for individual levels when
2 · 𝑇· 𝐹> 6 · 220, with 2 being the size of a half-precision entry.
1We observe speed-ups on the order of 10× compared to a naïve Python implementation.
We therefore also release PyTorch bindings around our hash encoding and fully fused
MLPs to permit their use in existing projects with little overhead.
The optimal number of feature dimensions 𝐹per lookup depends
on the GPU architecture. On one hand, a small number favors cache
locality in the previously mentioned streaming approach, but on
the other hand, a large 𝐹favors memory coherence by allowing for
𝐹-wide vector load instructions. 𝐹= 2 gave us the best cost-quality
trade-off (see Figure 5) and we use it in all experiments.
Architecture. In all tasks, except for NeRF which we will describe
later, we use an MLP with two hidden layers that have a width
of 64 neurons, rectified linear unit (ReLU) activation functions on
their hidden layers, and a linear output layer. The maximum resolu-
tion 𝑁max is set to 2048 × scene size for NeRF and signed distance
functions, to half of the gigapixel image width, and 219 in radiance
caching (large value to support close-by objects in expansive scenes).
Initialization. We initialize neural network weights according
to Glorot and Bengio [2010] to provide a reasonable scaling of ac-
tivations and their gradients throughout the layers of the neural
network. We initialize the hash table entries using the uniform dis-
tribution U(−10−4, 10−4) to provide a small amount of randomness
while encouraging initial predictions close to zero. We also tried a
variety of different distributions, including zero-initialization, which
all resulted in a very slightly worse initial convergence speed. The
hash table appears to be robust to the initialization scheme.
Training. We jointly train the neural network weights and the
hash table entries by applying Adam [Kingma and Ba 2014], where
we set 𝛽1 = 0.9, 𝛽2 = 0.99,𝜖= 10−15, The choice of 𝛽1 and 𝛽2 makes
only a small difference, but the small value of 𝜖= 10−15 can signifi-
cantly accelerate the convergence of the hash table entries when
their gradients are sparse and weak. To prevent divergence after long
training periods, we apply a weak L2 regularization (factor 10−6) to
the neural network weights, but not to the hash table entries.
When fitting gigapixel images or NeRFs, we use the L2 loss. For
signed distance functions, we use the mean absolute percentage
error (MAPE), defined as |prediction −target|
|target| + 0.01
, and for neural radiance
caching we use a luminance-relative L2 loss [Müller et al. 2021].
We observed fastest convergence with a learning rate of 10−4 for
signed distance functions and 10−2 otherwise, as well a a batch size
of 214 for neural radiance caching and 218 otherwise.
Lastly, we skip Adam steps for hash table entries whose gradient is
exactly 0. This saves ∼10% performance when gradients are sparse,
which is a common occurrence with 𝑇≫BatchSize. Even though
this heuristic violates some of the assumptions behind Adam, we
observe no degradation in convergence.
Non-spatial input dimensions 𝜉∈R𝐸. The multiresolution hash
encoding targets spatial coordinates with relatively low dimension-
ality. All our experiments operate either in 2D or 3D. However, it
is frequently useful to input auxiliary dimensions 𝜉∈R𝐸to the
neural network, such as the view direction and material parameters
when learning a light field. In such cases, the auxiliary dimensions
can be encoded with established techniques whose cost does not
scale superlinearly with dimensionality; we use the one-blob encod-
ing [Müller et al. 2019] in neural radiance caching [Müller et al. 2021]
and the spherical harmonics basis in NeRF, similar to concurrent
work [Verbin et al. 2021; Yu et al. 2021a].
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 4, Article 102. Publication date: July 2022.

Instant Neural Graphics Primitives with a Multiresolution Hash Encoding
•
102:7
Hash table size: 𝑇= 222
𝑇= 222
𝑇= 212
𝑇= 217
𝑇= 222
Reference
Fig. 6. Approximating an RGB image of resolution 20 000 × 23 466 (469 M RGB pixels) with our multiresolution hash encoding. With hash table sizes 𝑇of 212,
217, and 222 the models shown have 117 k, 2.7 M, and 47.5 M trainable parameters respectively. With only 3.4% of the degrees of freedom of the input, the last
model achieves a reconstruction PSNR of 29.8 dB. “Girl With a Pearl Earring” renovation ©Koorosh Orooj (CC BY-SA 4.0)
5
EXPERIMENTS
To highlight the versatility and high quality of the encoding, we com-
pare it with previous encodings in four distinct computer graphics
primitives that benefit from encoding spatial coordinates.
5.1
Gigapixel Image Approximation
Learning the 2D to RGB mapping of image coordinates to colors
has become a popular benchmark for testing a model’s ability to
represent high-frequency detail [Martel et al. 2021; Müller et al.
2019; Sitzmann et al. 2020; Tancik et al. 2020]. Recent breakthroughs
in adaptive coordinate networks (ACORN) [Martel et al. 2021] have
shown impressive results when fitting very large images—up to a bil-
lion pixels—with high fidelity at even the smallest scales. We target
our multiresolution hash encoding at the same task and converge
to high-fidelity images in seconds to minutes (Figure 4).
For comparison, on the Tokyo panorama from Figure 1, ACORN
achieves a PSNR of 38.59 dB after 36.9 h of training. With a similar
number of parameters (𝑇= 224), our method achieves the same
PSNR after 2.5 minutes of training, peaking at 41.9 dB after 4 min.
Figure 6 showcases the level of detail contained in our model for a
variety of hash table sizes 𝑇on another image.
It is difficult to directly compare the performance of our encoding
to ACORN; a factor of ∼10 stems from our use of fully fused CUDA
kernels, provided by the tiny-cuda-nn framework [Müller 2021].
The input encoding allows for the use of a much smaller MLP than
with ACORN, which accounts for much of the remaining 10×–100×
speedup. That said, we believe that the biggest value-add of the
multiresolution hash encoding is its simplicity. ACORN relies on an
adaptive subdivision of the scene as part of a learning curriculum,
none of which is necessary with our encoding.
5.2
Signed Distance Functions
Signed distance functions (SDFs), in which a 3D shape is repre-
sented as the zero level-set of a function of position x, are used in
many applications including simulation, path planning, 3D mod-
eling, and video games. DeepSDF [Park et al. 2019] uses a large
MLP to represent one or more SDFs at a time. In contrast, when just
a single SDF needs to be fit, a spatially learned encoding, such as
ours can be employed and the MLP shrunk significantly. This is the
application we investigate in this section. As baseline, we compare
with NGLOD [Takikawa et al. 2021], which achieves state-of-the-art
results in both quality and speed by prefixing its small MLP with a
lookup from an octree of trainable feature vectors. Lookups along
the hierarchy of this octree act similarly to our multiresolution cas-
cade of grids: they are a collision-free analog to our technique, with
a fixed growth factor 𝑏= 2. To allow meaningful comparisons in
terms of both performance and quality, we implemented an opti-
mized version of NGLOD in our framework, details of which we
describe in Appendix B. Details pertaining to real-time training of
SDFs are described in Appendix C.
In Figure 7, we compare NGLOD with our multiresolution hash
encoding at roughly equal parameter count. We also show a straight-
forward application of the frequency encoding [Mildenhall et al.
2020] to provide a baseline, details of which are found in Appen-
dix D. By using a data structure tailored to the reference shape,
NGLOD achieves the highest visual reconstruction quality. How-
ever, even without such a dedicated data structure, our encoding
approaches a similar fidelity to NGLOD in terms of the intersection-
over-union metric (IoU2) with similar performance and memory cost.
Furthermore, the SDF is defined ev-
erywhere within the training volume,
as opposed to NGLOD, which is only
defined within the octree (i.e. close
to the surface). This permits the use
of certain SDF rendering techniques
such as approximate soft shadows
from a small number of off-surface
distance samples [Evans 2006], as
shown in the adjacent figure.
To emphasize differences between the compared methods, we
visualize the SDF using a shading model. The resulting colors are
sensitive to even slight changes in the surface normal, which empha-
sizes small fluctuations in the prediction more strongly than in other
graphics primitives where color is predicted directly. This sensitivity
reveals undesired microstructure in our hash encoding on the scale
2IoU is the ratio of volumes of the interiors of the intersection and union of the pair
of shapes being compared. IoU is always ≤1 with a perfect fit corresponding to = 1.
We measure IoU by comparing the signs of the SDFs at 128 million points uniformly
distributed within the bounding box of the scene.
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 4, Article 102. Publication date: July 2022.

102:8
•
Müller et al.
Hash (ours)
NGLOD
Hash (ours)
Frequency
Frequency
Hash (ours)
NGLOD
Hash (ours)
22.3 M (params)
12.2 M
124.9 k
124.9 k
12.2 M
16.0 M
1:56 (mm:ss)
1:14
1:32
2:10
1:54
1:49
0.9777 (IoU)
0.9812
0.8432
0.9898
0.9997
0.9998
11.1 M (params)
12.2 M
124.9 k
124.9 k
12.2 M
24.2 M
1:37 (mm:ss)
1:19
1:35
1:21
1:04
1:50
0.9911 (IoU)
0.9872
0.8470
0.7575
0.9691
0.9749
Fig. 7. Neural signed distance functions trained for 11 000 steps. The frequency encoding [Mildenhall et al. 2020] struggles to capture the sharp details on
these intricate models. NGLOD [Takikawa et al. 2021] achieves the highest visual quality, at the cost of only training the SDF inside the cells of a close-fitting
octree. Our hash encoding exhibits similar numeric quality in terms of intersection over union (IoU) and can be evaluated anywhere in the scene. However, it
also exhibits visually undesirable surface roughness that we attribute to randomly distributed hash collisions. Bearded Man ©Oliver Laric (CC BY-NC-SA 2.0)
Feature buffers
𝑚 enc(𝑥;𝜃); Φ
Predicted color
Online
supervised
training
Real-time sparse path tracer
Fig. 8. Summary of the neural radiance caching application [Müller et al. 2021]. The MLP 𝑚 enc(𝑥;𝜃); Φ is tasked with predicting photorealistic pixel colors
from feature buffers independently for each pixel. The feature buffers contain, among other variables, the world-space position x, which we propose to encode
with our method. Neural radiance caching is a challenging application, because it is supervised online during real-time rendering. The training data are a sparse
set of light paths that are continually spawned from the camera view. As such, the neural network and encoding do not learn a general mapping from features
to color, but rather they continually overfit to the current shape and lighting. To support animated content, training has a budget of one millisecond per frame.
Multiresolution hash encoding (Ours), 𝑇= 15, 133 FPS
Triangle wave encoding [Müller et al. 2021], 147 FPS
Far view
Medium view
Close-by view
Far view
Medium view
Close-by view
Fig. 9. Neural radiance caching [Müller et al. 2021] gains much improved quality from the multiresolution hash encoding with only a mild performance
penalty: 133 versus 147 frames per second at a resolution of 1920×1080px. To demonstrate the online adaptivity of the multiple hash resolutions vs. the prior
triangle wave encoding, we show screenshots from a smooth camera motion that starts with a far-away view of the scene (left) and zooms onto a close-by
view of an intricate shadow (right). Throughout the camera motion, which takes just a few seconds, the neural radiance cache continually learns from sparse
camera paths, enabling the cache to learn (“overfit”) intricate detail at the scale of the content that the camera is momentarily observing.
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 4, Article 102. Publication date: July 2022.
