A Survey of Structure from Motion
Onur ¨Ozye¸sil†
Vladislav Voroninski‡
Ronen Basri§
Amit Singer¶
Abstract
The structure from motion (SfM) problem in computer vision is the problem of recovering
the three-dimensional (3D) structure of a stationary scene from a set of projective measurements,
represented as a collection of two-dimensional (2D) images, via estimation of motion of the cameras
corresponding to these images. In essence, SfM involves the three main stages of (1) extraction
of features in images (e.g., points of interest, lines, etc.) and matching these features between
images, (2) camera motion estimation (e.g., using relative pairwise camera positions estimated
from the extracted features), and (3) recovery of the 3D structure using the estimated motion
and features (e.g., by minimizing the so-called reprojection error). This survey mainly focuses on
relatively recent developments in the literature pertaining to stages (2) and (3). More speciﬁcally,
after touching upon the early factorization-based techniques for motion and structure estimation,
we provide a detailed account of some of the recent camera location estimation methods in the
literature, followed by discussion of notable techniques for 3D structure recovery. We also cover
the basics of the simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) problem, which can be viewed
as a speciﬁc case of the SfM problem. Further, our survey includes a review of the fundamentals
of feature extraction and matching (i.e., stage (1) above), various recent methods for handling
ambiguities in 3D scenes, SfM techniques involving relatively uncommon camera models and image
features, and popular sources of data and SfM software.
1
Introduction
Recovering the 3-dimensional structure of a scene from images is a fundamental goal of computer
vision. A particularly eﬀective approach to 3D reconstruction involves the use of many images of
a stationary scene. This problem, commonly referred to as multiview structure from motion (SfM)
(depicted in Figure 1), is the subject of a large body of research in computer vision, starting with
the seminal paper of Longuet-Higgins [40]. A comprehensive and in-depth summary of this enormous
body of work can be found in [30].
Modern methods usually solve the multiview SfM problem using bundle adjustment techniques,
which aim to optimize a cost function known as the total reprojection error (cf. §4 for a more detailed
and general discussion of bundle adjustment). With this cost function, given n images of a stationary
scene, the objective is to simultaneously determine the structure (3D coordinates of scene points)
and the calibration parameters of each of the n cameras that minimize the discrepancy between
image measurements and their predictive model. For instance, in the speciﬁc case of pairwise point
correspondences between images, let us denote by {Pj}p
j=1 ⊆R3 the unknown positions of scene
†INTECH
Investment
Management
LLC,
One
Palmer
Square,
Suite
441,
Princeton,
NJ
08542,
USA
(oozyesil@intechjanus.com).
‡Helm.ai, Menlo Park, CA 94025, USA (vlad@helm.ai).
§Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, 76100, IS-
RAEL (ronen.basri@weizmann.ac.il).
¶Department
of
Mathematics
and
PACM,
Princeton
University,
Princeton,
NJ
08544-1000,
USA
(amits@math.princeton.edu).
1
arXiv:1701.08493v2  [cs.CV]  9 May 2017

Figure 1: The structure from motion (SfM) problem.
points, by {Ci}n
i=1 the 3 × 4 camera matrices, where the entries of each Ci encode the location of
camera i, its orientation and internal calibration parameters. Also, let (xij, yij) ∈R2 denote the
measured projection of point Pj onto the image plane of camera Ci. Then, we can deﬁne a (relatively
simple) bundle adjustment instance based on a sum of least squares cost function as
minimize
{Pj},{Ci}
X
i∼j

xij −CT
i1Pj
CT
i3Pj
2
+

yij −CT
i2Pj
CT
i3Pj
2
,
(1)
where, Cik ∈R4 denotes the k’th row of Ci (1 ≤k ≤3), i ∼j means that the j’th scene point
is visible by the i’th camera, and we abuse notation and identify the representation [Pj, 1] ∈R4
of Pj in homogeneous coordinates by Pj. Unfortunately, as a result of the special structure of the
camera matrices and the cost function in (1), the bundle adjustment problem (1) is not convex, and its
(na¨ıve) optimization in realistic settings typically converges to an (often undesired) local minimum. It
is therefore critical to develop methods that can initialize bundle adjustment, i.e. that provide initial
camera motion (and intrinsic calibration) and 3D structure estimates, as closely as possible to the
true solution.
In 2006 Snavely et al. [65] presented a sequential pipeline for SfM, demonstrating that it can
produce accurate reconstructions in practical scenarios where hundreds, or even thousands of inde-
pendently captured photographs are provided, sparking a huge interest in the development of eﬃcient
SfM techniques for large, unordered image sets (cf. §4). The suggested pipeline begins by detecting
keypoints in each image. It then uses the SIFT descriptor [42] to compare those keypoints across
images and to produce a set of potential matches. Random sampling and consensus (RANSAC) [9]
is applied next, to robustly estimate essential matrices between pairs of images (for computation of
relative motion of camera pairs) and to discard outlier matches. Then, starting with a pair of images
for which the largest number of inlier matches were found and then greedily adding one image at at
a time, bundle adjustment is solved repeatedly. Although this sequential pipeline is computationally
challenging, it successfully deals with large collections of images, producing in many cases highly accu-
rate reconstructions. However, it is based on greedy steps that may not result in an optimal solution.
Clearly, global approaches, which consider all images simultaneously (at least for the initial camera
motion estimation), may potentially yield improved solutions. Indeed a number of recent methods
attempt to globally estimate the camera locations (cf. §3) and orientations. In this survey, for the ini-
tial camera motion estimation part of SfM, we focus on methods for camera location estimation in §3,
and refer the reader to other surveys that review the problems of camera orientation and calibration
recovery [77].
2

The outline of this survey is as follows. In §2, we shortly discuss some of the early works in the
literature that introduce the basic SfM framework and the relatively simple factorization methods. §3
covers some of the recent work on camera location estimation from pairwise keypoint matches, such as
the simpler least squares methods based on the (homogeneous) epipolar constraints, relatively stable
convex methods based on a linearized representation (cf. (16)) of pairwise direction measurements,
heuristic methods for outlier rejection in pairwise directions, etc. We provide part of the key ideas
and methods in the literature for 3D structure estimation, with an emphasis on contemporary meth-
ods aimed at processing large, unordered sets of images, in §4. Details of inﬂuential works on the
simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) problem, which has recently experienced a dramatic
increase of popularity, are discussed in §5. Some of the remaining crucial topics in the vast SfM lit-
erature, including methods for feature point extraction and matching, works on handling instabilities
induced by symmetries and ambiguities in the images, methods for relatively uncommon types of
cameras (e.g., omnidirectional cameras), techniques using alternative basic measurements (e.g., based
on lines instead of feature points), some of the important software packages and popular datasets, etc.,
are considered in §6. Lastly, we conclude with a discussion of the current state and possible future
directions for the SfM problem in §7.
As it is, rather unfortunately, the fate of any survey on a topic having an extensive body of
literature like SfM, we are unable to cover every important work in the ﬁeld. In essence, we try to
focus on relatively recent SfM techniques. For earlier works in the literature, we refer the reader to
other sources, e.g. [75, 30, 52].
2
Early Works
This section covers some of the relatively early works on SfM, which have introduced the basic problem
formalism and the factorization based methods. We ﬁrst consider the seminal work [40] that introduced
the ﬁrst linear method based on point correspondences, later named the eight point algortihm, to solve
the SfM problem for a pair of cameras. Speciﬁcally, for a pair of cameras, [40] aims to estimate the
relative camera motion, i.e. relative rotation and translation, and the 3D coordinates of the scene points
captured by these cameras. Here, we represent the i’th camera using its orientation Ri ∈SO(3) and
its location ti ∈R3 by (Ri, ti). Considering that we can always ﬁx the (intrinsic) coordinate system
of one of the two cameras to be the global coordinate system (i.e., we can set Ri = I and ti = 0,
since an absolute coordinate system cannot be determined from point correspondences), solving for
the relative motion for a camera pair, and for the scene points based on the computed motion, then
corresponds to actually solving the SfM problem for the pair. The problem setup1 involves a simple
pinhole camera model (also see, e.g., §4 in [54] or [30]), in which a scene point P ∈R3 is represented
in the i’th image plane by pi ∈R3 (as in Figure 2). Here, we obtain pi by ﬁrst representing P, in the
i’th camera’s coordinate system, as Pi = RT
i (P −ti) = (Px
i , Py
i , Pz
i )T and then projecting it to the
i’th image plane by pi = (fi/P z
i )Pi, where Ri ∈SO(3), ti ∈R3 and fi ∈R+ denote the orientation,
the location of the focal point and the focal length of the i’th camera, respectively. For a pair of
cameras i and j as in Figure 2, we can restate the coplanarity of the points P, ti and tj, i.e. that
[(P −ti) × (P −tj)]T (ti −tj) = 0, in terms of the observable corresponding point measurements
pi, pj (cf. Figure 3 for a depiction of a set of corresponding points between a pair of images) and the
camera parameters as
pT
i

RT
i (tj −ti)

× RT
i Rj

pj =.. pT
i Eijpj = 0 ,
(2)
1We note that, our notation and type of projective measurement (or, equivalently, the global coordinate system)
are diﬀerent from those of [40], even though both choices are equivalent (i.e., any result obtained by using one can be
represented in terms of the other). Our choices (more or less) reﬂect the common terminology in the literature (cf., e.g.,
[54, 53, 4]). We also represent the epipolar constraints in their general form for a pair (i, j) to make use of them in the
following sections.
3

tj
ti
P
pi
pj
Epipoles
Figure 2: The pinhole camera model
where [t]× is the skew-symmetric matrix corresponding to the cross product with t and Eij =

RT
i (tj −ti)

× RT
i Rj is the essential matrix for the cameras i and j. Also let Tij ..=

RT
i (tj −ti)

×
and Rij ..= RT
i Rj, yielding Eij = TijRij. [40] makes the crucial observation that, among the various
equivalent restatements of the coplanarity of P, ti and tj, the useful property of (2), which is known
as the epipolar constraint, is that it provides a basis for the estimation of the specially structured
essential matrices in terms of the observable corresponding points. In other words, by ﬁxing the unde-
termined scale for the entries of Eij (e.g., ∥Eij∥F = 1, or as in [40] ∥tj −ti∥= 1, which is equivalent
to ∥Eij∥F =
√
2), we can solve for Eij ∈R3×3 from eight (linearly independent) epipolar constraints
(2) corresponding to eight 3D points2. Although [40] does not provide any algorithm for this purpose,
nor does it consider the eﬀects of uncertainties (i.e., noise) in the corresponding point measurements,
the usual approach in the literature is simply to minimize the sum of squared errors in the epipolar
constraints subject to the scale constraint, which is equivalent to ﬁnding the singular vector of the
resulting data matrix corresponding to its smallest singular value. After estimating Eij (up to a sign
to be determined later), [40] solves for Tij (up to another sign, again, to be determined later) by
eliminating Rij using EijET
ij = TijT T
ij . [40] then solves for Rij, based on its orthogonality, and for the
scene points using simple algebraic equations (cf. [40] for details). Lastly, the undetermined signs of
Eij and Tij are ﬁxed by requiring the scene points to lie in front of both of the cameras. If the scene
points are behind both of the cameras, the sign of Tij is altered and the relative rotation Rij and the
scene points are recalculated. If the scene points fall behind one of the two cameras, the sign of Eij is
altered and Tij, Rij and the scene points are recalculated. Additionally, [40] shortly discusses some of
the degenerate cases of eight 3D points (such as the cases of all points corresponding to the vertices
of a cube, at least seven points lying on a plane, six of the eight points corresponding to the vertices
of a regular hexagon, at least four points lying on a line), for which the eight point estimation cannot
be used. We note that, although [40] argues about the accuracy of the eight point algorithm, it was
in fact observed to be sensitive to noise, which resulted in the construction of alternative methods,
such as a normalized version of the eight point algorithm [31], for relative pairwise motion estimation.
For further reading on alternative methods to obtain epipolar geometries between images, cf., e.g.,
[89, 30].
Another early work in the literature that introduced the factorization method for SfM is [73]. To
model the SfM problem for objects that are relatively distant compared to their sizes, [73] assumes
an orthographic camera model, in which the 3D points are measured via parallel projections onto the
image plane (consequently ignoring the camera translation along the optical axis). Let the location
of the j’th 3D point on the j’th camera plane be given by qij = (xij, yij) ∈R2. In the noiseless case,
these orthographic measurements of m 3D points by n cameras are represented in [73] in terms of a
2In fact, due to the special structure of Eij, it is well known (cf., e.g., [30]) that only ﬁve corresponding 3D points
are suﬃcient to estimate Eij, however, this requires solving a nonlinear system of equations.
4

measurement matrix W ∈R2n×m satisfying
W =


x11
. . .
x1m
...
...
...
xn1
. . .
xnm
y11
. . .
y1m
...
...
...
yn1
. . .
ynm


.
(3)
The crucial observation that [73] makes is that, if the origin of the global reference system is chosen
to be at the center of the 3D structure points (implying that each row of W sums to zero), then W
can be decomposed into
W = RS , for R =


uT
1
...
uT
n
vT
1
...
vT
n


∈R2n×3 and S = [P1 . . . Pm] ∈R3×m ,
(4)
where uk and vk represent the orientation of the k’th camera (since, in the orthographic model, the
third direction given by uk ×vk is parallel to the viewing direction of the cameras) and Pk is the k’th
3D point. As a result, W has rank 3. In the noisy case, which may result in a higher rank for W, [73]
considers a valid measurement matrix to be given by the best rank-3 approximation to the noisy W
in the Frobenius norm sense, which is given by the singular value decomposition (SVD). Note that
replacing R and S with RQ and Q−1S, for an arbitrary invertible matrix Q ∈R3×3 results in the
same measurement matrix W. As a result, in order to compute R and S from W, [73] proposes to ﬁrst
compute a decomposition of W using SVD, and then to solve for Q using the orthonormality of the n
pairs (uk, vk). That is, for W = UW ΣW V T
W representing the SVD of W, [73] ﬁrst lets ˆR = UW Σ1/2
and ˆS = Σ1/2V T
W , and then computes the solution R = ˆRQ and S = Q−1 ˆS, where Q is given to be a
solution to the nonlinear system of 3n equations
ˆuT
k QQT ˆuk = ˆvT
k QQT ˆvk = 1 , ˆuT
k QQT ˆvk = 0 , k = 1, . . . , n
(5)
where ˆuk and ˆvk represent the k’th and (k+n)’th rows of ˆR (cf. (4)). [73] also extends the factorization
method to the case of occlusions (i.e., to the case when all scene points are not visible by all of the
cameras) and provides empirical evidence demonstrating the stability of their factorization approach
on various experimental scenarios.
An extension of the factorization methodology for the multiview SfM with perspective cameras
was introduced in [70]. This time, [70] considers the basic image projection equations
λijpij = CiPj , i = 1, . . . , n , j = 1, . . . , m ,
(6)
where, for the j’th 3D point represented (by abuse of notation) in the homogeneous coordinates by
Pj ∈R4 and Ci denoting the i’th camera matrix, pij ∈R3 is the projection of the j’th point onto
the i’th camera plane (in the homogeneous coordinates) and λij are the undetermined scales, termed
as projective depths. Similar to [73], these projective measurements are collected in [70] into a rank-4
measurement matrix Y ∈R3n×m given by
Y =


λ11p11
. . .
λ1mp1m
...
...
...
λn1pn1
. . .
λnmpnm

=


C1
...
Cn


P1
. . . Pm

.
(7)
5

The crucial point here is that we do not have direct access to the projective depths λij, and if λij were
to be accurately estimated, which constitutes the main contribution of [70], a factorization technique
similar to that of [73] could easily be applied. In order to achieve this goal, [70] considers the linear
system of equations for pairs of cameras (i, j) given by
Fijpjkλjk = (eij −pik)λik ,
(8)
where the fundamental matrix Fij ∈R3×3 satisﬁes Eij = KT
i FijKj, for Ki denoting the i’th camera
calibration matrix and Eij the essential matrix for the pair (i, j) (cf. (2)), and eij is the epipole on
the i’th image plane (cf. Figure 2). Considering the homogeneous linear equations (8) for the minimal
number of n−1 camera pairs, [70] estimates the projective depths up to global scale. After substitution
of the recovered λij in (7), [70] proceeds similarly to [73] and factorizes Y into its camera and structure
components using SVD (however, this time, there is no need to compute an undetermined multiplier
Q since the camera and the structure parts of Y do not have particular forms). Lastly, [70] concludes
with empirical results to evaluate the performance of their algorithm. A closely related approach,
with an additional section for the extension of the algorithm in [70] to the case of lines, instead of
points, as feature measurements is also given in [74].
An excellent account of factorization-based methods, for various camera models and alternative
feature measurements, can also be found in the survey [37].
3
Camera Location Estimation
In this section we discuss parts of the existing literature focusing primarily on the camera location
estimation part of the SfM problem. We consider the camera location estimation methods based on
corresponding point estimates between pairs of images. In the majority of the methods we discuss,
the corresponding point estimates are used to make relative motion measurements between pairs
of images, which can be decomposed into pairwise rotational and translational measurements. The
generic approach for these methods is to separately estimate the camera orientations based on the
pairwise rotational measurements and to use these camera orientation estimates together with the
pairwise translational measurements in order to solve for the camera locations. On the other hand,
we also discuss some of the methods in the literature that, to some degree, deviate from the generic
recipe mentioned above, and aim to jointly estimate camera orientations and locations, use local
structure estimates for location estimation, consider triplets of cameras, etc.
In order to concretize the generic approach mentioned above, consider the simple pinhole camera
model introduced in §2 and depicted in Figure 2. As discussed in §2, the essential matrix estimates,
computed, e.g., using the epipolar constraints (2) in the presence of suﬃciently many corresponding
scene points (and the knowledge of the intrinsic camera parameters), can be uniquely factorized
into relative rotational and translational parts, i.e. into estimates of RT
i Rj and

RT
i (tj −ti)

×. In
general, the relative rotational parts are used for the estimation of camera orientations Ri (cf. [77] for
a detailed account of the existing methods for camera orientation estimation). In order to estimate
the camera locations, the estimated orientations can be used directly with the translational parts to
obtain estimates of the pairwise directions γij = (ti −tj)/∥ti −tj∥. An alternative approach is to go
back to the epipolar constraints (2) to rewrite them as a set of linear homogeneous equations in the
camera locations ti given by
(ti −tj)T yk
ij = 0 , k = 1, . . . , mij
(9)
where yk
ij are functions of Ri, Rj and the k’th corresponding points pk
i , pk
j , and mij denotes the
number of corresponding points for the cameras i and j. These equations can then be used directly
for camera location estimation, or to obtain pairwise direction estimates.
6

Figure 3: Two images from the Notre-Dame Cathedral set in [65], with corresponding feature points (extracted
using the scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) [42]).
A crucial point to note about the estimates of the pairwise directions γij is that they lack any scale
information pertaining to the distance ∥ti −tj∥between camera pairs. The diﬃculties3 arising from
this homogeneity can be regarded as the most important contributor to the diversity of the camera
location estimation methods in the literature.
A relatively direct approach for location estimation from pairwise directions is based on the ho-
mogeneous system of equations
 I −γijγT
ij

(ti −tj) = 0 ,
(10)
which encapsulates the fact that the diﬀerence vectors ti−tj are parallel to the pairwise directions γij.
In [10], the locations are estimated by minimizing the sum of squared errors in the system obtained by
replacing γij in (10) with their estimates4 and using constraints to ﬁx the global scale and translation,
given respectively by P
i ∥ti∥2 = 1 and P
i ti = 0, to prevent the trivial solution of ti ≡t for some
t ∈R3, which is summarized as
minimize
{ti}
X
i∼j
(ti −tj)T  I −γijγT
ij

(ti −tj)
subject to
X
i
∥ti∥2 = 1 ;
X
i
ti = 0
(11)
Note that, considering the n locations stacked into a vector t ∈R3n, whose i’th 3 × 1 block is equal
to ti, we can rewrite the cost function of (11) as tT Lt, for some appropriate L ∈R3n×3n, and the
constraints as ∥t∥2 = 1 and V t = 0 (for V = I3 ⊗1T
n). Then, the solution to the least squares
problem (11) is given in terms of the (normalized) eigenvector corresponding to the fourth smallest
eigenvalue of L, whose null space includes the three rows of V . The authors of [10] also (heuristically)
identify various classes of problem instances, which they refer to as “problem pathologies”, resulting
in relatively unstable solutions. Among the listed “pathologies”, an important one is the class of
3Note that the pairwise relative motion measurements are invariant also to global orientation and location shifts, i.e.
any global rotational shift of the form Ri →RRi and any global translation of the form ti →ti + t for R ∈SO(3) and
t ∈R3 produce equivalent solutions. However, contrary to the case of invariance to scale transformations of the form
ti →cti for c ∈R+, these invariances are not observed to result in any diﬃculties in motion estimation.
4In [10], the authors actually assume a slightly more general setup, where the directional measurements are not
necessarily unit length, i.e. they may have some scale-related part (the source of which was unspeciﬁed). They also
propose a maximum covariance spectral solution, maximizing the alignment of ti −tj’s with γij’s, instead of penalizing
their deviation. We do not discuss this method due to its inferior performance as reported by the authors of [10].
7

“underconstrained” instances, which possess additional degrees of freedom resulting in more than one
sets of location estimates (not related to each other via a global translation and/or scale transforma-
tion) that may be signiﬁcantly diﬀerent. As sources of these underconstrained instances the authors
identify two (rather extreme) conditions, namely disconnectedness of the measurement graph5 and
the collinearity of all the directions at a single node, and also provide heuristic solutions to resolve
the extra degrees of freedom in such instances (these two conditions are in fact only speciﬁc examples
of a rich set of algebraic conditions deﬁning underconstrained instances, as was fully characterized
later in [54, 53]). A similar location estimation method based on the system of equations (10) is given
in [26]. In this method, instead of directly minimizing the sum of squared errors in the system (10),
an iteratively reweighted least squares solver, where in the k + 1’th iteration each equation in (10) is
weighted with 1/∥tk
i −tk
j ∥for tk
i denoting the solution of the k’th iteration, is used to democratize the
contribution of each pair of cameras in the total cost function. Another approach, similar in spirit to
these least squares methods, is introduced in [4]. This time, instead of the system of equations (10),
a least squares method is used to minimize the sum of squared errors in the epipolar constraints (9).
Figure 4: Estimates for a noisy, synthetic instance of the camera location estimation problem for 100 cameras,
demonstrating the clustering estimates of the least squares (LS) method of [10] vs. estimates of the relatively
stable semideﬁnite relaxation (SDR) solver in [54] (the line segments represent the error incurred by the SDR
solution compared to the ground truth).
Even though the least squares methods of [10, 26, 4] are computationally very eﬃcient and, for
relatively small datasets, produce acceptable location estimates, the quality of their estimates degrades
signiﬁcantly for large, sparse, unordered and noisy datasets (i.e. for most of the real datasets studied in
the literature). Typically, they tend to produce spurious location estimates that tightly cluster around
a small number of points (cf.
Figure 4 for such a clustering synthetic instance).
This undesired
tendency can be intuitively explained by considering the least squares optimization problem (11),
for which a clustering part of the solution results in a very small contribution to the cost function
and a few locations, usually corresponding to nodes in the measurement graph having few edges,
are separated from the cluster to satisfy the constraints. In order to resolve this diﬃculty, several
diﬀerent methods have been proposed in the literature. A relatively straightforward starting point,
which was introduced in [54], is to require the locations to satisfy a maximal proximity condition by
incorporating “repulsion constraints” of the form ∥ti −tj∥≥c, for some ﬁxed c > 0 (taken to be
c = 1 in [54]), into the least squares formulation of [10]. These non-convex constraints convert the
5The measurement graph is composed of nodes for each camera i and has an edge between nodes i and j if there is
a direction estimate for this pair.
8

least squares formulation into the notoriously diﬃcult problem of
minimize
{ti}i∈Vt⊆Rd
X
(i,j)∈Et
Tr

(ti −tj) (ti −tj)T  I −γijγT
ij

subject to
∥ti −tj∥2
2 ≥1, ∀(i, j) ∈Et ,
X
i
ti = 0
(12)
To approximate this computationally diﬃcult problem, [54] ﬁrst introduces the rank-1, positive
semideﬁnite matrix variable T ∈R3n×3n (for n denoting the number of cameras), the ij’th 3 × 3
block Tij of which is given by Tij = titT
j . Using T, the cost function and the non-convex constraints
of (12) are given, respectively, as linear functions P
i∼j Tr
 Lij(T)
 I −γijγT
ij

and Tr (Lij(T)) ≥1
of T, where the operator Lij(.) satisﬁes
Lij(T) = Tii + Tjj −Tij −Tji = (ti −tj) (ti −tj)T .
(13)
As a result of the linearity in T of the cost function and the constraints, the non-convexity of (12) is
fully represented by the non-convex rank-1 constraint on T (note that positive semideﬁniteness is a
convex constraint). As a result, [54] removes this ﬁnal non-convex constraint to obtain the semideﬁnite
relaxation formulation given by
minimize
T
X
i∼j
Tr
 Lij(T)
 I −γijγT
ij

subject to
Tr (Lij(T)) ≥1 , ∀i ∼j ,
Tr (V T) = 0 ,
T ⪰0 .
(14)
The approximate solution ti in (12) is obtained to be the i’th 3 × 1 block of the leading eigenvector of
the solution of the SDR (14). The tightness6 of this relaxation up to relatively high levels of noise is
empirically demonstrated in [54], and also a stability of recovery result is proven, which quantiﬁes the
amount of distortion in the location estimates to be on the order of the noise present in the pairwise
directions, under fairly general assumptions for the noise model. In order to improve the quality
of their location estimates, [54] proposes a “robust pairwise direction estimation” method based on
the system (9), where yk
ij’s are viewed as noisy samples from the 2D subspace orthogonal to γij and
eﬃcient robust subspace recovery techniques are used to estimate each pairwise direction γij. Addi-
tionally, and perhaps more importantly, a complete characterization of the well-posed instances of the
location recovery from pairwise directions7 is provided in [54] by demonstrating its equivalence to the
existing results in the ﬁeld of parallel rigidity theory. For instance, while camera orientation estimation
only requires the connectivity of the measurement graph, connectivity alone is insuﬃcient to make
a camera location estimation instance well-posed (cf. Figure 5 for such an instance). The complete
characterization of well-posed instances of the location recovery problem (for arbitrary dimensions
d ≥2) , via (generically) parallel rigid measurement graphs is summarized in Theorem 1.
6Tightness here refers to obtaining the solution of the non-convex problem as the solution to the relaxed convex
problem, i.e. the two globally optimal solutions are the same and hence there is no relaxation gap.
7To be more accurate, in [54], the information assumed to be available is actually a collection of potentially incomplete
and noisy versions of the pairwise lines (or unsigned directions), which can be represented by the projection matrices
(ti −tj)(ti −tj)/∥ti −tj∥2. However, the well-posed instances for this case turns out to be the same as in the case of
pairwise directions.
9

Figure 5:
(a) A noiseless instance of the camera location estimation problem for 5 locations on a con-
nected graph (we assume noiseless direction measurements between location pairs having an edge), which is
not parallel rigid (in R2 and R3). Non-uniqueness is demonstrated by two non-congruent location solutions
{t1, t2, t3, t4, t5} and {t1, t2, t3, t′
4, t′
5}, each of which can be obtained from the other by an independent
rescaling of the solution for one of its maximally parallel rigid components, (b) Maximally parallel rigid com-
ponents of the formation in (a), (c) A parallel rigid formation (in R2 and R3) obtained from the formation in
(a) by adding the extra edge (1, 4) linking its maximally parallel rigid components
Theorem 1. A graph G = (V, E) is generically parallel rigid in Rd if and only if it contains a
nonempty set of edges E′ ⊆E, with (d −1)|E′| = d|V | −(d + 1), such that for all subsets E′′ of E′,
we have
(d −1)|E′′| ≤d|V (E′′)| −(d + 1) ,
(15)
where V (E′′) denotes the vertex set of the edges in E′′.
The authors of [54] also provide eﬃcient algorithms for testing well-posedness, and algorithms for
extracting maximal well-posed subproblems in the presence of an ill-posed instance. Additionally, [54]
introduces an eﬃcient alternating direction augmented Lagrangian method (ADM) to solve the SDR
(14), and a distributed algorithm to apply the SDR method for large sets of images.
An alternative two step procedure, which is composed of the detection of outliers among the
pairwise direction measurements, via a procedure named 1DSfM, followed by a (non-convex) location
estimation method, is studied in [83] (cf. Figure 6, courtesy of [83], for a simpliﬁed illustration of
the outlier detection procedure 1DSfM). The main idea in the outlier detection step, is to project
all of the pairwise directions onto a one-dimensional (random) subspace and to try to solve the
resulting ordering problem8 as consistently as possible, from which potential outliers can be identiﬁed
as having larger inconsistencies. The detection procedure “solves” several of these randomized one-
dimensional problems and identiﬁes the outliers as those directions having an inconsistency score
larger than some value. After removal of outlier direction measurements, the locations are estimated
by an unconstrained maximization, using the Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm, of the non-convex cost
function P
ij ˆγT
ij(ti−tj)/∥ti−tj∥that measures the alignment of the pairwise directions (ti−tj)/∥ti−
tj∥with their “cleaned” estimates ˆγij. Extensive experimental results on large datasets demonstrating
the accuracy and the eﬃciency of their method are also provided in [83].
Instead of the systems of equations (9) or (10), on which the various least squares methods are
based, an alternative approach aiming to prevent the clustering phenomena is to consider the system
of equations
ti −tj −αijγij = 0 ,
(16)
8This ordering problem, namely the minimum feedback arc set problem, is known to be an NP-complete problem,
hence [83] uses a heuristic/approximate method observed to perform well in the literature.
10

Figure 6: A simpliﬁed illustration (courtesy of [83]) of outlier detection via 1DSfM in [83]: (a) Ground truth
camera locations with (potentially noisy) pairwise directions available for camera pairs connected with arrows
(b) Available pairwise directions, with an outlier edge shown in red, and two directions, ˆi and p, for 1D
projections (c) Projections of pairwise directions onto ˆi and p, resulting in two instances of the minimum
feedback arc set problem (d) Solutions to the 1D problems in (c), depicting the violation (satisfaction) of
the 1D constraints by the outlier edge (3, 0) in the 1D problem induced by ˆi (p), since outlier edges may be
consistent with only some of the solutions to the 1D subproblems.
where αij ..= ∥ti −tj∥. Note that, if we ignore this deﬁning (non-convex) relation between αij’s
and ti’s, (16) turns out to be a linear system in αij’s and ti’s for given γij. This system forms the
basis of the location estimation method used in [76], where the cost function is the sum of squares of
the errors in (16) and the additional constraints αij ≥1 are used to prevent the trivially collapsing
solution ti ≡0, αij ≡0. That is, for location estimation [76] solves
minimize
{ti},{αij}
X
i∼j
∥ti −tj −αijγij∥2
subject to
X
i
ti = 0 ; αij ≥1
(17)
In fact, the main theme in [76] is to provide a distributed algorithm for camera motion estimation,
i.e. joint estimation of orientations and locations. In this respect, [76] provides a consensus based
three step algorithm, and local convergence and partial stability (for the rotational part) results. The
quadratic location estimation method (17) is used to obtain an initial set of locations (i.e. constitutes
the second step of their distributed algorithm), and then is fused with the rotational part to obtain
a joint motion estimation method. In terms of the camera location estimation problem with given
pairwise directions, the usage of the system (16) as an alternative to the systems (9) or (10) together
with the relaxed repulsion constraints αij ≥1 is the crucial contribution of [76], since, as reported,
e.g., by [53], this framework provides location estimates with acceptable quality, which do not tend
to cluster for large and noisy datasets, while preserving computational eﬃciency. A closely related
optimization method based on (16) and the constraints αij ≥1 is introduced in [49]. The cost function
of this method is given by the maximum absolute deviation in the system (16)9. The authors of [49]
also introduce robust rotation and pairwise direction estimation methods. We note, however, that
9The method of [49] actually assumes the possibility of multiple pairwise direction measurements for each camera
pair i and j, computed from each triangle the pair is in.
11

such maximal deviation penalty methods (i.e., ℓ∞norm minimization methods) are highly sensitive
to outliers in the pairwise direction estimates.
3.1
Robust Convex Methods
The existence of large proportion of outliers among pairwise direction estimates, e.g. stemming from
systematically mismatched features between images as a result of symmetries or ambiguities in the im-
ages (also see §6.2), manifests itself as large errors in the estimated locations. While for some datasets
this diﬃculty may be tamed by preprocessing of the pairwise directions for rejection of outliers (e.g.,
as in [83]), making use of consistencies in locally constructed 3D structures, etc., generally applicable
eﬃcient algorithms, which are resilient to large number of outliers and which exhibit provable conver-
gence to globally optimal solutions and admit theoretical guarantees of robustness, are of high value.
We will consider two recent algorithms in this section having some of these desired properties.
The ﬁrst location estimation algorithm, based on the system (16) and closely related to [76, 49],
is given in [53], where this time, instead of using a cost function given as the sum of squared errors
(as in [76]) or the maximum error (as in [49]) in the system of equations (16), the method minimizes
the sum of unsquared errors in (16) (hence the name least unsquared deviations (LUD) method) by
employing the same relaxed repulsion constraints αij ≥1. In other words, ti are estimated by solving
minimize
{ti},{αij}
X
i∼j
∥ti −tj −αijγij∥
subject to
X
i
ti = 0 ; αij ≥1
(18)
The motivation in this formulation (mainly inspired by compressed sensing methods designed to re-
cover corrupted signals from a minimal set of linear measurements), is to maintain robustness to
outliers in the measurements of the pairwise directions γij. As a convex second-order cone program
(SOCP), the LUD solver (18) is a computationally eﬃcient location estimator with guaranteed con-
vergence to the globally optimal solution. More importantly, the rather interesting phenomenon of
exact location recovery10 by the LUD method in the presence of suﬃciently many exact direction mea-
surements (i.e. suﬃciently few outlier direction measurements), the number of which varies with the
level of sparsity in the measurement graph and the number of cameras, is empirically demonstrated
for the ﬁrst time in [53] (cf. Figure 7). An eﬃcient iteratively weighted least squares (IRLS) solver
for the LUD problem (18) is provided in [53].
Additionally, [53] introduces a (non-convex) direction estimation algorithm based on the system
(9) (similar to [54], but more eﬃcient). The pairwise directions are estimated in a two step procedure
that ﬁrst produces estimates of unsigned directions γ0
ij = bijγij, and then computes the initially
undetermined signs bij ∈{−1, +1} via the chirality requirement on the 3D points. In order to maintain
robustness to outliers among estimates ˆyk
ij of yk
ij in (9) for the estimation of unsigned directions γ0
ij,
[53] considers the following (non-convex) problem:
minimize
γ0
ij
mij
X
k=1
|(γ0
ij)T ˆyk
ij|
subject to ∥γ0
ij∥= 1
(19)
To obtain the estimate ˆγ0
ij, a (heuristic) IRLS method is used, which is not guaranteed to converge
to global optima (since the program (19) is not convex). However, [53] provides empirical evidence
10Here, “exact location recovery” corresponds to the estimation of locations up to a global scale and translation (i.e.,
up to a gauge freedom of kind ti →cti + t for arbitrary c > 0 and t ∈R3), whose ground truth values are known, with
a total error smaller than a ﬁxed value, which may be chosen to represent machine precision errors.
12
